# Topological design principle for RIP3 biphasic and emergent dynamics in dictating cell death
Here, based on the TNF-induced cell death signaling, we systematically study the RIP1-dependent
biphasic dynamics with necroptosis emergence and search for the essential structure. Through
reproducing the main behavior or the signaling that observed in experiments, we confirmed that
the RIP1-RIP3-C8 incoherent feedforward loop is the core topology for biphasic dynamics with
emergence induction, while the positive feedback of RIP1 activated by RIP3 dominates the
coexistence of necroptosis and apoptosis. Moreover, a scale-invariant feature of RIP3 peak
value and biphasic regulation of the biphasic dynamics by RIP3 are further determined and
analyzed. Instead of exploring mechanisms to achieve the dynamics in a specific system, random
parameter analysis of the TNF circuit is also performed, indicating the biphasic dynamics with
emergence is the intrinsic properties of the signaling topology. Besides the positive feedback
of RIP1 activated by RIP3, the positive feedback of RIP3 self-activation that is embedded within
the RIP1-RIP3-C8 incoherent feedforward loop is also a fundamental structure for achieving the
biphasic dynamics with emergence and cell death coexistence. Finally, we perform an exhausting
search of two- and three-node network topologies to identify those capable of biphasic dynamics
with emergence. We classify all identified topologies according to what core motifs they
include, and three categories of minimal motifs are obtained. Based on the minimal motif, an
optimal motif structure for efficiently achieving biphasic, emergent, and coexisting dynamics
is further proposed, which is highly consistent with the experimental determined RIP1-RIP3-C8
circuit. Overall, all the evidence we have obtained indicate the incoherent feedforward loop
embedded with positive feedback should be a generalizable design principle for the induction of
biphasic, emergent, and coexisting dynamics in diverse biological systems.